[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 15]
What now?
Send him back?
Brute.
You've never done
any counseling.
Zhang Yang, go.
Tashi, look.
Tashi.
Look here.
Don't move. Look here.
It's not done.
Why run?
I won't.
I don't like taking photos.
Same here.
Me neither.
Fine.
Go ahead.
We'll watch.
Zhang Yang, look here.
Okay.
One, two.
Come on.
It's a bad angle.
Here.
Come here.
By the hood.
Let's check it out.
This works.
Okay.
One, two, three.
Well.
Sit on the hood.
Nice.
One, two, three. Done.
Try it.
It's easy. Try it.
I'll break it.
The camera's sturdy.
It won't break.
Tashi, look.
Aim at people.
Press this button.
Press.
Okay.
Stop.
You're pressing
like firing a gun.
I have limited shots.
You'll use them all.
You're stingy.
I'll buy another
roll.
Give it.
Tashi, hold this.
Like I showed you.
Come on, press this.
Right.
Press.
Okay.
Stop.
Tashi, I'll show you.
Look.
See
this black frame?
This is the viewfinder.
Put your eye up to it.
Hold it. Eye up to it.
See the image?
Yeah.
It's blurry.
Clear now?
Clear, right?
Press this with your index finger.
Right.
Aim and press.
Yes, look.
That's your
first photo.
Come here.
Come.
Look.
This is focus.
Bigger?
He looks bigger,
right?
Clear?
Press the shutter.
Good shots, right?
Your Dad
is the best
survival expert.
Cars get stuck in snow.
Others check on foot.
He sees subtle ground
differences and
avoids soft
spots without stopping.
Why are its face
and legs black?
From the cold?
I also asked your
Dad this.
He said that
during mating season,
male Tibetan antelopes
turn black.
Black looks stronger and
attracts females.
You're lying.
I can tell.
Police don't lie.
This photo
tells a story.
We
followed
Tibetan antelope tracks
to a
mountaintop lake
with fresh water.
We saw
Tibetan sand foxes,
snow leopards, and brown bears.
Almost a paradise.
Want to go?
I can take you next time.
This is what your
Dad is doing.
Such a beautiful land
needs protection.
We can't let it be a hunting ground
or dump.
Right?
When we took this photo,
we'd just gotten
the car out of a ditch.
Like it?
It's yours.
Take it.
At home,
I've never seen him
smile so happily.
Zhacuo,
introduce.
Speak to this?
Yes.
These are
the pelts we found last time.
Tibetan antelope pelts.
Over 400 pelts.
The biggest haul yet.
The four of us
almost died there.
We didn't get them all.
We couldn't carry all at once,
so we buried the pelts
and will get
them next time.
Reporter Shao, look.
Poachers don't just
hunt Tibetan antelopes.
These small ones are Tibetan sand foxes.
Over 20 were poisoned.
This is the Mountain Patrol's daily life.
In 1.5 years,
they seized
over 1600
animal pelts.
Captain's back.
Let's go.
Captain brought food.
Come on.
Move everything
onto the car.
What is "Jin Xiang"?
Is it food?
Not food.
Go for a meeting.
Captain, what's this?
Don't ask.
Just move it.
Stop looking.
[Toilet Paper]
Come help.
Hurry.
Only six boxes?
There's plenty
piled at the hospital.
You young people,
why so conservative?
Yes.
It's perfectly normal.
Women here
rarely use sanitary belts.
They've definitely never seen them.
Captain,
this is too sudden.
This has nothing to do
with our work.
Put your hands down.
Fine.
Open your eyes.
Stop it.
Director Zhang
assigned this task.
Distributing toilet paper
and sanitary belts
to women in nearby townships.
Our team has cars and
covers a wide area.
We should help.
Distribute?
Do we have to take
these into others' homes?
If not to homes,
where else would you take them?
For the Uninhabited Zone's
Tibetan antelopes?
I'm not going.
Disobeying order?
He, what about you?
I'll make tea.
What's with the attitude?
This is a good deed.
Show the same energy you have
when dealing with criminals.
Let's go.
If we distribute this,
they'll think we're
criminals.
Right, Sangba?
I don't know how to use this.
I have no idea
how to explain it to people.
Hey.
Take that down.
You don't use it like that.
Why do you take it out?
Put it back.
You idiots.
I'll distribute them.
Only Bai can do it.
Set an example for us.
Good job, Bai.
Applause for Bai.
Go.
Cut the crap.
Come with me.
No problem.
Look at you,
so scared.
It's no big deal.
Let's go.
Go.
Talk calmly.
Get
out.
Hands off.
Stop pushing.
Get out.
Our land,
water,
wool are clean.
No disease.
Why give me this?
I'm not saying your wife is sick.
It's for prevention.
Prevention.
I don't understand.
We don't need it.
It's not up to you.
I want to talk to Sister.
Sister, come out.
Hands off.
Go.
Leave.
Don't come back.
I'm so mad.
Get inside.
It wasn't for you.
Why
refuse it for your wife?
Enough.
Stop shouting.
People like that are
ignorant.
We have a long way to go.
When he pushed,
couldn't
you stop him?
I tried to stop!
No.
You let him push me.
I did stop him.
You're
a coward.
Why blame me?
Bai Shao.
let's go
get lunch.
You go.
Stop dieting.
Let's get noodles.
Yeah.
I'm not going.
I have
a date.
Yes.
Our Bai Shao
is taken.
Not true.
Don't talk nonsense.
Sorry.
We're closed.
Hello.
Comrade, you're late.
It's lunch time.
Come back later.
I'm not
too late, am I?
Bai Shao.
I wanted
to buy you peonies.
They're symbolic.
I'll make it up next time.
You think
everything can be made up?
Sorry, Bai Shao.
Don't apologize.
We broke up.
No.
We never said we were
breaking up.
How is this a breakup?
What is this then?
You just left,
never told
me where you went.
Did you
call me even once?
Did you write me a letter?
What's this if not a breakup?
My fault.
I regretted it
while we were apart,
Back then,
I hesitated.
I backed out.
I shouldn't have
left
you here.
Get this straight.
You didn't leave me.
This
is my home.
I can
live well
without you.
But I can't.
Honestly,
without you,
I want to die.
If you don't forgive me,
I'll die.
Fine.
How will you die?
I'll jump off a building.
Jump, huh?
Come.
Bai Shao.
Do you see that?
The tallest building in the county is
no more than three stories.
Want to jump?
Go ahead.
Jump now.
I'd like to see how you do it.
Go.
Don't, Bai Shao.
Forgive me.
Just once.
Once.
Ding Zhuoxi.
What do you take me for?
A bank?
You open an
account in my heart,
dole out some
affection,
expecting me to generate interest.
Ding Zhuoxi.
We're done.
Understand?
Bai Shao,
forgive me.
I've thought it through.
Don't touch me.
Thought what through?
Bai Shao, just a chance.
Don't touch her.
Harassing her
in broad daylight?
No.
She's my girlfriend.
What?
Touch her again,
I'll call the police.
Lin Jianshe.
I'm not your girlfriend.
None of your business.
Go.
Bai Shao.
Stay out of it.
You know him?
Drop it.
Let go!
Stay out of it.
What're you doing?
Who are you?
I'm her boyfriend.
The last batch isn't done,
and here comes more.
Wear a uniform next time.
No one would dare to touch you.
Easy for you to say.
Sister.
Over here.
Bai Shao,
what's wrong?
Stop shouting.
What happened?
Lin Jianshe.
Your head's bleeding.
Xi.
Xi, you're back.
What's with them?
Don't ask.
Which department should they see?
They...
Is Mom here?
She's out on a house call in pastoral area.
Maybe not back yet.
That's good.
What?
Mom, you're back.
What happened?
I don't know.
My Sister just came.
I'm not sure.
Your head's bleeding.
Jianshe.
What happened?
I did it.
What?
No, Auntie.
It's my fault.
Sort of
I hit him.
Who are you?
Hello, Auntie.
I'm Ding Zhuoxi.
Call me Xi.
Okay, stop talking.
Stop standing there.
He's hurt.
Get him to the clinic.
You too.
Okay.
Wei.
Come here.
Head wound.
Your Sister brought two men
in the hospital, beaten up.
Why do they
fight?
None of your business.
Move.
So.
That's what happened.
Mom.
Well,
I didn't want this.
Lin Jianshe
hit him.
I couldn't stop him.
Stop, Lin Jianshe.
Let go.
And
I didn't know
there was something on my bag.
Not that right now.
Luckily, it's not serious.
Tell me the truth.
What is your relationship
with Lin Jianshe?
I told you.
Why don't you believe me?
We're
not dating,
just friends.
I already made
it clear to him.
Why is he
so agitated?
How should I know?
He has a bad temper.
His family must have
spoiled him.
Watch your language.
So,
when you were friends,
did you contact...
What's his name?
Xi.
He doesn't even have a last name.
Were you in contact?
Absolutely not.
I
couldn't even find him.
Bai Shao,
be honest.
What is your relationship
with
Xi now?
He.
He's my
boyfriend.
Louder.
He's my boyfriend.
I don't have time
for your drama.
All you do is cause trouble.
Auntie Zhu
trusts us,
and you.
No, Mom,
you can't blame me.
I never lied to
Lin Jianshe
or took
advantage of their family.
But you break
her son's head.
I can't
understand
young people today.
Always talking
about free love,
dating
casually,
on and off,
like it's a game.
Back in our day,
it wasn't like this.
Who understands
relationships now?
Auntie Zhang.
You should let Bai Shao
be careful.
I think that Southerner...
Did I ask you to speak?
I won't speak.
Aren't you embarrassed enough?
Fight with others.
Is this what a college
student should do?
Who raised you like this?
Ma'am,
don't scold Jianshe.
This is Bai Shao's fault.
I'm her mother.
I failed to educate her.
When will Lin be back?
He went to the countryside.
He won't be back for days.
When your Dad gets back,
how do I explain this?
You
talk too much.
But I get it now.
Auntie,
don't worry.
I'm serious.
I'll make up for my
mistakes with actions.
So,
this time,
I came here
to formally propose.
That's asking for her hand.
Yes.
Asking for her hand.
I'm too nervous.
I didn't say it well.
Then don't say it.
It's painful to listen to.
Mom.
Have you thought this through?
I have.
Have you decided to marry him?
Yes.
And live with
him in Guangzhou?
Exactly.
A...
A-Auntie.
Mom, what's wrong
with you today?
You look mad all day.
What did Xi do?
I hit Lin Jianshe.
It's not Xi's fault.
And
Lin Jianshe was wrong.
He started the fight.
Don't mention him.
He has nothing
to do with this.
That man
dumped you,
left just like that,
left you heartbroken.
Now he returns.
He's only met me twice,
and says he wants to marry my daughter
and take her to Guangzhou.
Guangzhou.
It's far from home.
It's several days away by train.
You've
never left
my side.
Do you
understand a mother's feelings?
Mom.
Xi.
Come in.
I want to talk to you.
My Sister said
Mom and Xi
talked long that night
but didn't hear what
was said.
But the result was unexpected.
Mom said
Xi is honest.
She likes him and
trusts his character.
They had dinner, and
became like a family.
Xi seemed
born to be
part of this family.
Our family
always does
unexpected things.
Maybe we
are all like Mom.
You left
something
in my room.
[The Besieged City]
You saw it?
I'm not blind.
It's under my
Light Weapons.
Why did you do this?
If I handed
the book to you,
you might not like it.
This way,
you might flip
through it and keep it.
Then give it to He Qingyuan.
No. It's for you.
Why me?
You were right.
I wasn't honest
about my feelings.
Don't mind that it's old.
It's the 1980
first edition
of The Besieged City.
My Dad's prized copy.
He gave it to me when
I got into college.
So,
it means
a lot to me.
People outside the city want in,
while those inside want out.
Marriage,
careers,
life's the same.
In the later edition,
the author added lines
which resonated with me.
You're quite mature.
Dated a lot?
No.
I disagree with
those lines now.
I want to
be with the one
I love.
If we're trapped in the city,
feeling stifled,
let's escape
together.
If we're
outside the city,
tired of drifting,
let's find
a home together.
Bai Ju.
In elementary school,
I loved
my Chinese teacher.
She had nice handwriting,
spoke gently,
and praised my
essays.
I had my first girlfriend
when I was a sophomore.
-She's my classmate.
-What are you talking about?
And,
you were right.
I called the provincial capital.
Not the newspaper.
I called a friend in
Public Security publicity.
He knows people.
I asked him about
Forestry Police
training.
After the reserve is set up,
you can transfer to the Forestry Police.
That could lead you
to the
provincial capital.
I didn't want to say this.
Because
it wasn't
certain.
But I want to be honest.
No secrets.
No lies.
Did I
say too much?
Anything unclear,
I can explain.
I don't get it.
Are you planning my future?
Yes.
Why?
Why are you planning my future?
I-if we're going to keep going,
it's
better to plan
early.
Sorry.
Am I
being presumptuous?
Sorry.
I was afraid
you'd think I...
Keep going?
Did my Mom's
words affect you?
Shao Yunfei,
You're
overthinking.
But thanks for asking about
Forestry Police.
Even if I join
Forestry Police,
I won't leave here.
My birth parents
and adoptive father are buried here.
My Mom raised us
all by herself.
This is my home.
I'm not leaving.
You have no family here.
You won't stay.
No matter how much you like
a place
or a thing.
If no one cares about you,
you won't stay long.
This book is important.
Keep it safe.
Don't give it away casually.
Thanks, sir.
Mom,
why are you home this time?
Night shift today?
Day shift.
I knew you'd be back,
so I came to meet you.
Why do you call me back?
Why the rush?
Big news.
Eat first.
Bring the dishes up.
What news?
Here.
Mom,
I got the message to
bring everything
back.
I knew it was good news.
What is it?
After dinner.
Just say it.
Wait for Big Sister
to say it together?
Is Second Sister coming?
Have some soup.
Stop stalling.
Did Uncle Lin
transfer me back?
Which department?
No.
Not a transfer.
Then what?
I want
you to quit.
Guys,
I brought shrimp chips.
Come on, have some.
Hey, have some.
Zhacuo,
have some.
There's plenty.
Sister, have some?
They
won't hit Xi, right?
You think I'm a
useless police?
Talk.
What?
Questioning me?
Relax.
Mom
cleared you.
I can't
interrogate you.
Chairman Ding's
a good man
and capable.
Close with Captain.
I'm fine with it.
Hold on.
You're getting off track.
I'm marrying Xi,
not his Dad.
Exactly.
That's the issue.
I don't
trust Xi.
Why not?
You sound like Mom.
Relax.
Xi loves me.
Besides,
he told me he's
quitting
his Dad's
business.
No more mining?
He said because
he found the world's
best gold mine.
Ugh.
So cheesy.
Good?
Yeah.
What's that?
This is the 10000 yuan
I saved up.
Hold it for Mom.
Why not give it to her?
She won't take it.
She knows
that I want to start
a business there,
and I'll need the money.
Exactly.
You should
keep it.
You
say it's fine,
but
I feel guilty.
Why?
When I apologized
to Auntie Zhu,
she didn't say
anything harsh.
But after all this,
both Uncle Lin's family
and ours
have lost face.
I can just
leave.
But you still
have to live here.
Don't make it sound
like we're suffering.
Not to mention Mom,
I've got plenty
to do here.
And what I want
can only be done
here.
I'm not going anywhere.
Alright.
I'll keep this
for Mom.
Hey!
Knock!
Stop them!
They're fighting!
You said
they wouldn't hit Xi.
I.
Get up.
Bro, calm down.
It's your fault!
You tricked my Sister
and cost me my job!
I'll kill you!
Bai Ji, calm down.
Bai Ji!
Bai Ji,
Why did you come here?
Bai Ji.
Stay out of this.
It's a misunderstanding.
Misunderstanding?
Hey, stop!
I'll kill him!
Stop it!
He didn't trick me.
I chose
to go with him.
Mom called you back
to not trouble Uncle Lin.
If you're mad, take it out on me.
Beat me if you want.
What are you doing, Bai Ji?
Stop!
I should apply what I said to Duojie
to myself.
What did you say?
Don't just work.
Discipline your kids.
Lin Peisheng, you're always like this.
If you're angry, say it.
Don't bring
your office act
home.
It's you who is always like this.
What about me?
You've shielded
him since
he was little.
Look what
you've made him.
I was gone just over a week,
and he caused this mess.
I told you.
These things
depend on fate.
But you insisted on matchmaking.
Don't you know
your own child?
I matched them, not forced them.
If Bai Shao didn't want to,
she could've said so.
No one forced her.
If she'd said it earlier,
it wouldn't be like this.
Besides,
you
don't hit people.
Who hit first?
Didn't your son
start it?
Who burns bridges unless
they're pushed?
Why didn't she say it earlier?
Enough.
This reflects
poorly on all of us.
Let bygones
be bygones.
No one mentions this again.
Dad.
I don't want to stay in Mazhi anymore.
I've lost all face.
Okay.
You've improved.
You know shame now.
Lin Peisheng.
I know.
I'll ask around.
Check the city...
I don't want to stay there either.
Then where?
To the sky?
I want to go to grad school.
Grad school?
You know your
limits.
Don't you?
Without
that
city cram school,
you'd only be in junior college.
I want to go abroad.
What did you say?
Go abroad.
Zhu Li, did you hear that?
Alright.
Go ahead
and see how much
you can squeeze
out of us.
If it's enough, then go.
Abroad?
Why
not the moon?
County Mayor Lin.
Is County Mayor Lin home?
Enough.
-Yes.
-Ma'am.
Ma'am.
Feng is here.
He just got back.
Come in.
Okay.
I'll cook.
Thank you.
County Mayor Lin.
Feng.
Uncle Feng.
What's wrong with Jianshe?
He's up to no good,
fighting people.
Come, sit.
Don't just stand there.
Pour Uncle Feng some tea.
I rushed to get this
wedding dress
made,
and you won't wear it.
Don't mention it.
That
is bright red,
it looks scary.
Look how nice mine is.
Not wearing it.
Then keep it
for your Sister.
I'm not wearing it either.
Are you really not having a banquet?
I'll follow
Bai Shao about the banquet.
I don't want one.
We'll drive south,
playing as we go.
That'll be our celebration.
That's good.
Better than a wedding.
Really?
You don't get it.
Ms. Zhang.
Take this.
A wedding gift.
You make it?